The President: Hello, everybody.
I hope most of you are
gearing up for a long
weekend with family and
friends - maybe some
barbeques, road trips,
or fantasy drafts.
But I wanted to take a
moment to talk to you about
the real meaning of Labor
Day - a day we set aside
every year to honor the
hardworking men and women
who fought for so many of
the rights that we take for
granted today.
The eight-hour workday,
40-hour workweek, weekends.
Overtime and the
minimum wage.
Safer workplaces.
Health insurance, Social
Security, Medicare, and
retirement plans.
All of those gains were
fought for and won by the
labor movement - folks who
were working not just for a
bigger paycheck for
themselves, but for more
security and prosperity for
the folks working next to
them as well.
That's how we built the
great American middle class.
That's the spirit we've been
working to restore these
past six and a half years.
On Friday, we found out that
the economy created another
173,000 jobs in August.
Over the past five and a
half years, our businesses
have created 13.1 million
new jobs in total - the
longest streak of job
creation on record.
The unemployment rate
dropped to 5.1%, the lowest
it's been in seven years.
The American auto industry
is on track to sell more
cars and trucks this year
than it has in more than
a decade.
Sixteen million Americans
have gained the security of
health insurance.
Seventeen states and about
30 cities and counties have
raised the minimum wage.
And we've proposed extending
overtime protections to as
many as five
million Americans.
All of that is progress.
This month, Congress has an
opportunity to continue
that progress.
As always, the deadline for
Congress to pass a budget is
the end of September.
Every year.
This is not new.
And if they don't, they'll
shut down the government for
the second time
in two years.
At a time when the global
economy faces headwinds and
America's economy is a
relative bright spot in the
world, a shutdown of our
government would be
wildly irresponsible.
It would be an unforced
error that saps the momentum
we've worked so
hard to build.
Plain and simple, a
shutdown would hurt
working Americans.
It doesn't have to happen.
If Congress wants to support
working Americans and
strengthen our middle class,
they can pass a budget that
invests in, not makes cuts
to, the middle class.
If they pass a budget with
shortsighted sequester cuts
that harm our military and
our economy, I'll veto it.
If they make smart
investments in our military
readiness, our
infrastructure, our schools,
public health, and research,
I'll sign that budget - and
they know that.
So let's get it done.
Our economy doesn't need
another round of threats
and brinksmanship.
Nobody gets to play games
with our economy - or the
middle class I grew up in,
and that you grew up in.
So tell Congress to pass a
budget that reflects the
values we honor
on Labor Day.
Rewarding hard work.
Giving everybody
a fair shot.
And working together to give
all of our kids a better life.
Thanks everybody.
And enjoy your weekend.